---
title: 3 Years
slug: 3-years
date: '2008-06-16T04:24:43'
updated: '2008-06-16T04:24:43'
draft: false
tags:
- Personal
author: Sean Feldman
---


Today is 3 years since I started working with the company I work today. It's being a long journey from figuring out what I want, till realizing what I am and need to be. The team has accepted all of my wildest ideas about the code and was very tolerant to the fact that I cannot wait to get something done. We've made a long way.

Besides improving as a software developer, I also realized a few bitter realities - it doesn't matter how good I am, still need to strive to be better. Besides the excellence in code, there must be a proficiency in human relationships. The code is not only about a single developer level, but about team level, because if you are the only one who can have fun with it, it is no longer fun.

Lessons are good, but I have to look forward and setup certain goals for myself, what do I want to achieve the next year? A lot.

* I want the team to get to the point where I am right now, and I can do more for that
* I want to have more fun while working, because without it work is useless
* I want be more influencing people, help them realize themselves better, without getting into conflicts
* I want to improve a lot myself, and by doing that to show, that you can achieve if you want to

Some of my targets will change or get updated, but the core set of goals will remain.

A lot ahead, I better start moving towards it.


